What have we learned so far.
Well when developers talk about client side rendering they're usually talking about rendering content
in a browser using javascript.
A single page application.
So instead of getting all of the content from the shemale document itself you're getting a very tiny
small a small document with a javascript file that will render the rest of the site for you on the browser.
With this we're able to have really rich interactions that make our apps feel fast.
So let's talk about that.
We're going to talk about the pros and cons of server side versus client side as I just mentioned.
One of the big things with client side rendering is the fact that it's got very rich interactions.
Were you able to just load parts of the page and feel like we're working with apps instead of web pages
that do a full refresh every time.
They're really really nice for these modern application like feel that we have on our website client
side rendering also has a faster response from the server because the server doesn't have to render
the HTML page and you know do the Render to string that re-act Dom server has or do any extra work.
All it needs to do is just send that tiny little Steimle file.
The server actually responds a lot faster with client side rendering.
And finally it's great for web applications not just because it has rich interactions but because it's
a faster Web site experience.
After the initial load.
So after the Javascript has worked through and has created the view for us because we already have everything
loaded on like server side rendering where we have to go back again to the server and make that request
all our javascript is loaded all our views are there so that we're able to interact really really fast
and modify only parts of the page based on the view.
And we're pretty familiar with the benefits because we work with client side rendered applications and
actually see them daily on the Internet.
But there are a few cons with these sort of applications and probably the biggest one that you should
consider is that with client side rendering it's really hard or it's definitely more difficult to have
good as SEO or search engine optimization.
Now why is that.
Well because with these apps we just render a simple a small file.
So with our react to app we just had a simple div and the way search engine optimization works is that
browsers such as Google and all these other browsers have their own crullers or programs that search
through Web sites.
See what the Web sites are about and then put them into their database to understand what they're about.
So that's when a user searches super recipe's all know this web sites about soup.
This web sites about soup.
This isn't about soup.
I'm going to give this user these 10 results and that's how they're able to do searches.
Now these crawlers because they're just programs have a difficult time working with Klein side rendered
apps because something like the Googlebot will load the web page and then see that this web site only
has a div with an idea of an app that's it.
And it's going to say all right it's you know it might have some description that a meta tag that says
oh yeah this web page is about robots.
But when the Google bot looks at the web page it only sees the diff tag.
So it says all right this is about a Web site.
I'm not interested in ranking it high for SEO and then on top of that we also have our app making Ajax
requests to get robots so again the rendering takes a lot longer.
So by the time Googlebot actually checks maybe we haven't rendered everything and it will have a good
idea of what our web page does.
Now Googlebot actually weighs between 5 and 20 seconds before taking what we call a snapshot of each
page so that they could index it for MCO.
But this doesn't always work.
And this is the case only for Chrome like Bing or Yahoo browser or Baidu.
It's a lot different.
So working with these these bots that crawl your Web site it's really really difficult to show them
what your website is about so that you have good as he'll.
And this is a lot of work with client side rendered applications and it's very easy to have poor deal
with it.
So if you have a website that really depends on Nescio.
Let's say you're a hotel company that lists hotels all over the world.
Well a CEO might be important to you because you get a lot of your customers through Google searches
where people say I want a hotel in Milan they might consider that a server side rendered app might be
better for them.
And then finally this is an obvious one that we've talked about.
It's the idea that it has longer initial load although we get a faster response from the server because
we have javascript that needs to render our Web page.
We have a faster initial load than server side rendered apps.
So we see that loading screen or a blank page a lot longer than a server side rendered up initially
for most users these types of applications will feel a lot slower What about the other side.
What about server side rendered apps well.
The first thing is that server side rendered apps are really good at SEO for the points that I just
mentioned because it's rendered on the server but the time it arrives on the browser where the google
bot searches it.
It already has everything rendered and the Google Googlebot can be like oh yeah this is definitely a
soup recipes website.
I'm going to rank it high because the content is presented before you actually get it in the view.
It's also really really good with what we call static sites just simple web sites that aren't as dynamic.
There are Web sites that have a lot of text based information such as documentation.
They're really really good and make static sites look really nice.
For example the re-act documentation page is a great example of this.
If we go to the documentation page for re-act we see that it's mainly text and we use it server side
rendering to render all these pages.
You see how the M-L changes of the top.
As I
switch between pages.
So this is a great use case for a server side rendered.
And then finally another big pro is the initial page load because server side rendered DAPs are rendered
on the server to the user.
Most of the time it appears that these Web sites load a little bit faster.
Now what about the conc Well the first thing is the fact that we have to do a full page reload because
we have to request a new page from the server and you can make things fast and look nice with this.
But it also is is a tough one to do especially if most of your page looks the same but you're still
requesting the same thing over and over for each different page.
And then we also have a slower page rendering with the cut off over here.
Whoops.
But I'm sure you can still see that you see with server side rendering time to first byte which is when
is the first piece of information from the server received is slower than client side rendering.
Because as I mentioned your server needs to spend time to create the email for your page instead of
just sending out a fast response like with client side rendering remembered the re-act Dom server render
to string method Well it's a synchronous C.P. you Bankole.
Which means that the CPQ has to work to render your app on the server which if it's a big app could
take a long time it holds up what we called the event loop.
So the server isn't able to process any other request until this is done.
And this can be a huge deal breaker for some people.
If our app is really really big and we need to render our let's say home page for a really long time
that server is just going to be sitting there waiting for the server to finish its work.
And this can be a huge deal breaker for most people server side rendering definitely means more work
for your server.
But not just for the server but for the developers as well.
You're increasing the complexity of your codebase as your reactor components now will need a node server
just like I showed you to be available for it to actually work.
So with added complexity to your application.
Keep that in mind that now more of your developer time and capital and resources are going to go into
getting server side rendering to work versus working on new features or doing other things that could
be more important to your app.
And then obviously we have the number of requests to the server every time we need a new page or we
need to communicate with the server.
Depending on the internet connection maybe that will actually be worse off for you than having that
initial load time be longer with client side rendering.
Finally keep in mind that server side rendering may make your web site look faster but it doesn't actually
mean a user can interact with it because remember until we get that interactivity we still need to load
Javascript.
So you have to be careful with that.
All right.
We should have a good idea of what's good what's bad when to use one over the other.
Let's take a look in the next video some of the ways that you can do server side rendering right.
Because we all already know how to do client side rendering.
I'll see on that one.